By storing data in Kafka is great for recovery,
clients still need a data store to utilize while running on the various nodes.
By default, most dream frameworks will simply use an in-memory store to hold state.
While this is fast,
and the usage of the compacted Kafka topics provides fault tolerance,
there are better strategies to a boot times on our nodes,
than to use in-memory storage.
RocksDB, is a highly optimized local state store
that was built at Facebook for situations just like this.
In production, RocksDB can run on every single one of
your application nodes and source state
for that particular stream processing application.
This local state store can dramatically speed up recovery times,
especially for high-throughput streams.
While you don't need to be an expert in how to actually use RocksDB,
it's important that you know why you would use it versus an in-memory store.
What you need to remember is that RocksDB is used for
quickstart times between reboots on the same node.
It's worth noting, that RocksDB is used by all the major stream processing frameworks,
as an option to store state, Case SQL,
Kafka Streams Faust and Flink,
all use RocksDB as an option.
I just want to state one more time,
it's always a good idea to use RocksDB in production and
lower environments are on your local computer or in our exercises,
for example, it's always okay to use an in-memory data store.
But if you're doing something in production,
try to use RocksDB unless you absolutely can't.